Add new Bechmark IA (#5022)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/quickstart.md

Benchmarks are run using the [`execute-test`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/commands/execute-test/) with the following command flags:

For additional `execute_test` command flags, see the [execute-test]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/commands/execute-test/) reference. Some commonly used options are `--workload-params`, `--exclude-tasks`, and `--include-tasks`
{: .tip}

* `--pipeline=benchmark-only` : Informs OSB that users wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.
- `workload=geonames`: The name of workload the OpenSearch Benchmark uses.
* `--target-host="<OpenSearch Cluster Endpoint>"`: Indicates the target cluster or host that OSB will benchmark. Enter the endpoint to your OpenSearch cluster here.
* `--client-options="basic_auth_user:'<Basic Auth Username>',basic_auth_password:'<Basic Auth Password>'"`: The username and password for your OpenSearch cluster.
* `--test-mode`: Allows users to run the workload without running it for the entire duration. When this flag is present, OSB runs the first thousand operations of each task in the workload. This is only meant for sanity checks and the metrics produced are meaningless.

> The `--distribution-version`, which indicates which OpenSearch version OSB will use when provisioning. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
The `--distribution-version`, which indicates which OpenSearch version Benchmark will use when provisioning. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.
```

---
layout: default
title: Quickstart
nav_order: 2
---

# OpenSearch Benchmark quickstart

This tutorial outlines how to quickly install OpenSearch Benchmark (OSB) and run your first OpenSearch Benchmark workload. 

## Prerequisites

To perform the Quickstart steps, you'll need to fulfill the following prerequisites:

- A currently active OpenSearch cluster. For instructions on how to create an OpenSearch cluster, see [Creating a cluster]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}//tuning-your-cluster/index/).
- Git 2.3 or greater.

Additional prerequisites are required depending on your installation method.

- If you plan to install OpenSearch Benchmark with [PyPi](https://pypi.org/), install Python 3.8 or greater.
- If you plan to install OpenSearch Benchmark using Docker, install Docker. 

## Installing OpenSearch Benchmark

You can install OpenSearch Benchmark either using PyPi or Docker. 

> If you plan to run OpenSearch Benchmark with a cluster using Sigv4, see [Sigv4 support]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/tutorials/sigv4)

Author: ```suggestion
If you plan to run OpenSearch Benchmark with a cluster using Sigv4, see [Sigv4 support]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/tutorials/sigv4/)
```

> If you plan to run OpenSearch Benchmark with a cluster using Sigv4, see [Sigv4 support]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/tutorials/sigv4/)

Author: ```suggestion
If you plan to run OpenSearch Benchmark with a cluster using AWS Signature Version 4 (AWS Sigv4), see [Sigv4 support]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/tutorials/sigv4/)
```

### PyPi

To install OpenSearch Benchmark with PyPi, enter the following `pip` command:

```bash
pip3 install opensearch-benchmark
```
{% include copy.html %}

After the installation completes, verify that OSB is running by entering the following command:

```bash
opensearch-benchmark --help
```
{% include copy.html %}

If successful, OpenSearch returns the following response:

```bash

> $ opensearch-benchmark % opensearch-benchmark --help

Reviewer: `$ opensearch-benchmark % opensearch-benchmark` --> We can remove `opensearch-benchmark %`

> $ opensearch-benchmark % opensearch-benchmark --help

Author: ```suggestion
$ opensearch-benchmark --help
```

/ /_/ / /_/ /  __/ / / /__/ /  __/ /_/ / /  / /__/ / / /  / /_/ /  __/ / / / /__/ / / / / / / / / /_/ / /  / ,<
\____/ .___/\___/_/ /_/____/\___/\__,_/_/   \___/_/ /_/  /_____/\___/_/ /_/\___/_/ /_/_/ /_/ /_/\__,_/_/  /_/|_|
    /_/

 A benchmarking tool for OpenSearch

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --version             show program's version number and exit

subcommands:
  {execute-test,list,info,create-workload,generate,compare,download,install,start,stop}
    execute-test        Run a benchmark
    list                List configuration options
    info                Show info about a workload
    create-workload     Create a Benchmark workload from existing data
    generate            Generate artifacts
    compare             Compare two test_executions
    download            Downloads an artifact
    install             Installs an OpenSearch node locally
    start               Starts an OpenSearch node locally
    stop                Stops an OpenSearch node locally

Find out more about Benchmark at https://opensearch.org/docs
```

> ### Docker

Author: Let me check the live file.

To pull the image from Docker Hub, run the following command:

```bash
docker pull opensearchproject/opensearch-benchmark:latest
```
{% include copy.html %}

> Then, run the Docker image:

Author: ```suggestion
Then run the Docker image:
```

```bash
docker run opensearchproject/opensearch-benchmark -h
```
{% include copy.html %}

## Running your first Benchmark

You can now run your first benchmark. For your first benchmark, you'll use the [geonames](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-benchmark-workloads/tree/main/geonames) workload.

### Understanding workload command flags

Benchmarks are run using the [`execute-test`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/commands/execute-test/) with the following command flags:

> For additional `execute_test` command flags, see the [execute-test]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/commands/execute-test/) reference. Some commonly used options are `--workload-params`, `--exclude-tasks`, and `--include-tasks`

Reviewer 2: This tip is great, but might fit better following the list of flags.

{: .tip}

> * `--pipeline=benchmark-only` : Informs OSB that you wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: `Informs OSB that you wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.` --> `Informs OSB that users wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.`
their to users

> * `--pipeline=benchmark-only` : Informs OSB that you wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
* `--pipeline=benchmark-only` : Informs OSB that users wants to provide their own OpenSearch cluster.
```

> - `workload=geoname`: The name of workload the benchmark uses.

Reviewer: `workload=geoname` --> `--workload=geonames`

Author: ```suggestion
- `workload=geonames`: The name of workload the OpenSearch Benchmark uses.
```

* `--target-host="<OpenSearch Cluster Endpoint>"`: Indicates the target cluster or host that OSB will benchmark. Enter the endpoint to your OpenSearch cluster here.
* `--client-options="basic_auth_user:'<Basic Auth Username>',basic_auth_password:'<Basic Auth Password>'"`: The username and password for your OpenSearch cluster.

> * `--test-mode`: Indicates that this Benchmark is a test. Test mode only runs the first thousand operations of each task indicated in the workload. 

Reviewer: we can rephrase "Indicates that this Benchmark is a test". Users might interpret that they might need to add this flag every time they want to run a test. 

We can write "Allows users to run the workload without running it for the entire duration. When this flag is present, OSB runs the first thousand operations of each task in the workload. This is only meant for sanity checks and the metrics produced are meaningless."

> * `--test-mode`: Indicates that this Benchmark is a test. Test mode only runs the first thousand operations of each task indicated in the workload. 

Author: ```suggestion
* `--test-mode`: Allows users to run the workload without running it for the entire duration. When this flag is present, OSB runs the first thousand operations of each task in the workload. This is only meant for sanity checks and the metrics produced are meaningless.
```

> The `--distribution-version`, which indicates what version of OpenSearch OSB will user when provisioning a cluster, is not required. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: `what version of OpenSearch OSB will user when provisioning` --> ` which OpenSearch version OSB will use when provisioning`

> The `--distribution-version`, which indicates what version of OpenSearch OSB will user when provisioning a cluster, is not required. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
The `--distribution-version`, which indicates which OpenSearch version OSB will use when provisioning. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.
```

> The `--distribution-version`, which indicates which OpenSearch version OSB will use when provisioning. When run, the `execute-test` command will parse the correct distribution version when it connects to the OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer 2: "The `--distribution-version`, which indicates which OpenSearch version OSB will use when provisioning."

Is this another command flag? Does it belong in the list above? If yes, it should be formatted like the others. If not, this factoid comes out of the blue. What does it refer to?

|                                                     error rate |             asc_sort_geonameid |           0 |       % |
|                                                 Min Throughput |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |       70.35 |   ops/s |
|                                                Mean Throughput |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |       70.35 |   ops/s |
|                                              Median Throughput |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |       70.35 |   ops/s |
|                                                 Max Throughput |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |       70.35 |   ops/s |
|                                       100th percentile latency |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |      18.664 |      ms |
|                                  100th percentile service time |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |     4.16119 |      ms |
|                                                     error rate |  asc_sort_with_after_geonameid |           0 |       % |

--------------------------------
[INFO] SUCCESS (took 98 seconds)
--------------------------------
```

> Each task ran by the `geonames` workload represents a specific OpenSearch API operation, such as Bulk or Search, that was performed when the test was ran. Each task in the output summary contains the the following information: 

Author: ```suggestion
Each task ran by the `geonames` workload represents a specific OpenSearch API operation, such as Bulk or Search, that was performed when the test was ran. Each task in the output summary contains the following information: 
```

> Each task ran by the `geonames` workload represents a specific OpenSearch API operation, such as Bulk or Search, that was performed when the test was ran. Each task in the output summary contains the following information: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each task run by the `geonames` workload represents a specific OpenSearch API operation---such as Bulk or Search---that was performed when the test was run. Each task in the output summary contains the following information: 
```

* **Throughput:** The number of successful OpenSearch operations per second. 

> * **Latency:** The time, including wait time, it took for the request and the response to be sent out and received by OSB

Reviewer 2: As in the previous bullet point, end with a period. All others that follow, too.

* **Service Time:** The time, excluding wait time, it took for the request and the response to be sent out and received by OSB
* **Error Rate:** Percent of operations run during the task that were not successful or (200s)

> 

Reviewer: We will most likely have to revise Latency and Service Time as these have different meanings in OSB that we don't want people to confused about. When we publish the concept page over Throughput, Service Time, and Latency, we can revise these definitions and also include a sentence saying "For more insight into Throughput, Service Time, and Latency see this discussion"
